---
title: 'API'
description: 'Example section for showcasing API endpoints'
---

Bouncer Email Verification API lets you validate email address and verify
its deliverability, in the way you want.


It’s easy to integrate, powerful, robust, secure, ultrafast and affordable.


Let Bouncer handle verification and validation of your email addresses, with
Real-Time (synchronous), Batch (asynchronous), and a hybrid of those two
Batch Synchronous end-points.


If at any time you would need extra support from our side, you can reach us
by email at :
[support@usebouncer.com](https://mailto:support@usebouncer.com)


# Getting Started


## Authentication


All calls made to the Bouncer API have to be made using HTTPS.


In order to generate your API Key go
[here](https://app.usebouncer.com/member/api/) or:


- sign up for a Bouncer account [here](https://app.usebouncer.com/signup),

- click on the API on the left-site menu,

- click Generate API Key button.


Bouncer API supports 2 methods of authentication:


#### x-api-key in header


``` bash

curl https://api.usebouncer.com/v1.1/email/verify?email=john@usebouncer.com
-H 'x-api-key: API-KEY'

 ```

#### "Basic" authentication with api key as password


``` bash

curl https://api.usebouncer.com/v1.1/email/verify?email=john@usebouncer.com
-u :API-KEY

 ```

## Error Handling


The API makes use of standard HTTP errors to indicate the success or failure
of a request. The 2xx series of response codes indicate a success, 4xx
indicates an error from the client side, and a 5xx error indicates a
server-side error. Here are the HTTP response codes the API utilises:


- 200 Success

- 400 Bad Request

- 401 Unauthorized

- 402 Payment Required

- 403 Forbidden

- 404 Not Found

- 429 Too Many Requests

- 503 Service Unavailable


Cases to handle while implementing integration:


- Status code 402 - Account does not have enough credits to handle request.
Purchase is required. Other way to handle this is to configure email alerts
or auto-refill available with subscription.

- Status code 429 - Request have been rate limited. Too many requests have
been sent.

- Status code 503 - In some edge cases it's possible that response with
status code 503 will be returned. In that case retry should solve the
problem.


# Terminology


## Statuses


Every email address that you verify, will come back with a result that is
either 'deliverable', 'undeliverable', 'risky' or 'unknown'. Below is a
short explanation of what each means:


- `deliverable` - The recipient's email provider has confirmed that the
email address exists, it is safe to send.

- `risky` - The email address may result in a bounce or low engagement.
Risky addresses: Accept All, Full Mailbox or Disposable.

- `undeliverable` - The address is either syntactically incorrect or does
not exist.

- `unknown` - We were unable to receive a response from the email provider.


## Reasons


Additionally to the status of your results, Bouncer will provide you with a
reason for the results:


### risky


- `low_deliverability` - Email address appears to be deliverable, but
deliverability cannot be guaranteed (in most cases it is caused by catch_all
/ accept_all configuration of recipient’s server or full mailbox).

- `low_quality` - Email address has quality issues that may make it a risky
or low-value address (in most cases it is caused by the fact that it is a
disposable/temporary email).


### undeliverable


- `invalid_email` - Specified email doesn't have a valid email address
syntax.

- `invalid_domain` - Domain for email does not exist or has no valid DNS
records.

- `rejected_email` - Email address was rejected by the SMTP server, email
address does not exist.


### unknown


- `dns_error` - We were unable to resolve DNS records or domain is
misconfigured.

- `unavailable_smtp` - SMTP server was unavailable to process our request.

- `unsupported` - Email hosted by an unsupported email service provider.

- `timeout` - Verification required more time than was available.

- `unknown` - An unexpected error has occurred.


## Domain


Bouncer also provides some information about the domain of the email
address:


### name


Domain of the email.


### acceptAll


Is domain configured to accept all emails?


- `yes` - Domain of the email address is configured to accept all /catch all
the emails.

- `no` - Domain of the email address does not accept all emails.

- `unknown` - Bouncer was unable to check if the domain of the email address
is configured to accept all / catch all the emails.


### disposable


Is domain known disposable / temporary email provider?


- `yes` - Email address is hosted by a known disposable / temporary email
provider.

- `no` - Email address is not hosted by a known disposable / temporary email
provider.

- `unknown` - Bouncer was unable to check if the email is a deposable /
temporary email address.


### free


Is domain known free email provider?


- `yes` - Email address is hosted by a known free email provider.

- `no` - Email address is not hosted by a known free email provider.

- `unknown` - Bouncer was unable to check if the email is a free email
address.


## Account


Bouncer also provides some information about the email account itself:


### role


Is the email address a role / functional one (like support, hello, etc.)?


- `yes` - Email address is associated with a function.

- `no` - Email address is not associated with a function.

- `unknown` - Bouncer was unable to check if the email address is a role /
functional one.


### disabled


Is the account disabled?


- `yes` - Account is disabled.

- `no` - Account is not disabled.

- `unknown` - Bouncer was unable to check if the account is disabled.


### fullMailbox


Is the mailbox full?


- `yes` - Mailbox is full.

- `no` - Mailbox is not full.

- `unknown` - Bouncer was unable to check if the mailbox is full.


## Provider


Name of infrastructure provider which handles SMTP communication for this
domain.

It can be either an email service provider or a name of an anti-spam filter
provider which protects underlying infrastructure.


## DNS


- type: `MX` - domain does have MX records configured

- type: `A` - only A records were found

- `record` - dns record used for verification


## Did You Mean


If the email address you have provided seems to be undeliverable or of low
quality - Bouncer may find a suggestion of a correct one and return it in
the didYouMean field.


Please note it was not fully verified, so you might want to run a
verification of the suggested email address.


## Score


Score represents chance for successful delivery of email. 100 means 100%
chance of delivery, given sending infrastructure has good reputation.


Empty value means that it wouldn't make sense to evaluate score, for example
in the case of timeout.


## Toxic


If toxicity has been checked this flag will have one of the values "yes",
"no", "unknown". Meaning of which are as follows:


- yes - email or its domain has been found in one of our lists which
indicate that it was involved in spam, abusing, is owned by a litigator or a
complainer, or is a spam trap

- no - it has not been found on any of our email toxicity lists

- unknown - it has not been found on any of our lists, although it may be
ambiguous


# Sandbox


To develop and test your integration special sandbox emails can be used free
of charge. For batch requests credits will be allocated when batch is
created and returned when completed.


Emails that can be used free of charge:


[deliverable@sandbox.usebouncer.com](https://mailto:deliverable@sandbox.usebouncer.com)

[free@sandbox.usebouncer.com](https://mailto:free@sandbox.usebouncer.com)

[disposable@sandbox.usebouncer.com](https://mailto:disposable@sandbox.usebouncer.com)

[accept-all@sandbox.usebouncer.com](https://mailto:accept-all@sandbox.usebouncer.com)

[undeliverable@sandbox.usebouncer.com](https://mailto:undeliverable@sandbox.usebouncer.com)

[unknown@sandbox.usebouncer.com](https://mailto:unknown@sandbox.usebouncer.com)

[other@sandbox.usebouncer.com](https://mailto:other@sandbox.usebouncer.com)


Any of them can be modified with a "+" suffix to generate more unique
emails. For example:


[deliverable+12345@sandbox.usebouncer.com](https://mailto:deliverable+12345@sandbox.usebouncer.com)
